INTRODUCTION TO THE JAVA

JVM(Java Virtual Machine) is virtual machine that resides(prebiva) in the real machine(your computer).
Machine language for JVM is byte code. Compiler generate byte code for JVM. 
JVM executes the byte code generated by compiler and produce output. 
JVM that makes java platform independent.

SOURCE CODE -> COMPILER(javac) -> BYTE CODE(class.file) -> JVM -> interpreter for Windows, MAC , Linux.











1.0 VARIABLES

Variables are way to store information in our computer. We access the variable by naming it.
We give name to the variable and computer does not hard work to figure out where they get stored in computer RAM memory.

We have to tell to the computer what type of information we want to store in the variable, and then give it name.
To define a variable we need to specify data type, then give our variable name and add some expression to initialize the variable with value.

1.1 String Literal

Any sequence of characters surrounded by double quotes is a String Literal in Java.It is value can't be changed,unlike variable(za razliku od variable.)

2.0 PRIMITIVE TYPE

In Java primitive types are the most basic data types. The int is one of the 8 primitive data types.
The eight primitive data types in Java are BOOLEAN, BYTE, CHAR, SHORT, INT, LONG, FLOAT and DOUBLE.
Java uses the concepts of Wrapper class for all eight primitive types-In the case of an int,
we can use Integer and by doing this it is give us ways to perform operations on an int.
One of the case is when we are using MAX_VALUE and MIN_VALUE to get Java to tell us maximum and minimum ranges of numbers that can be stored.

If you try to put value larger than the maximum value in Java or value smaller then the minimum value,
then you will get OVERFLOW for maximum value and UNDERFLOW in the case for minimum value.

BOOLEAN
BYTE occupies 8 bits.
SHORT occupies 16 bites.
INTEGER occupies 32 bites.
CHAR occupies 16 bites.
LONG occupies 64 bites.
FLOAT occupies 32 bites.
DOUBLE occupies 64 bites.

3.0 CASTING IN JAVA

Casting means to convert a number from one type to another.
In Java, there are two types of casting:

Widening(prosirivanje) casting - converting smaller type to a larger type size:
byte-> short-> char -> int-> long-> float-> double

Narrowing(suzavanje) casting - converting larger type to a smaller type size:
double-> float-> long-> int-> char-> short-> byte.

4.0 STRING

String is sequence of characters. It could contain single characters only (regular characters or Unicode characters).










